docs: create rfc to plan postgres implementation for storage layer (#2421)
bucketeer-io/bucketeer: docs/rfcs/polymorphic-database-storage.md

└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
            ┌─────────────────┴─────────────────┐
            ▼                                   ▼
┌───────────────────────┐       ┌─────────────────────────────────┐
│   database.Client     │       │      Storage Interface          │
│   (for transactions)  │       │  (PushStorage, TagStorage, ...) │
└───────────────────────┘       └─────────────────────────────────┘
            │                                   │
            │                   ┌───────────────┴───────────────┐
            │                   ▼                               ▼
            │       ┌─────────────────────┐       ┌──────────────────────────┐
            │       │ MySQL Implementation│       │ PostgreSQL Implementation│
            │       │ (mysql_push.go)     │       │ (postgres_push.go)       │
            │       └─────────────────────┘       └──────────────────────────┘
            │                   │                               │
            ▼                   ▼                               ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐

> │                    pkg/storage/v2/database                      │

Author: This is the v2 package we already have, it is having bigquery, mysql inside

│  (database.Client interface + MySQL/Postgres adapters)          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
            │                                   │
            ▼                                   ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐       ┌─────────────────────────┐
│   pkg/storage/v2/mysql  │       │ pkg/storage/v2/postgres │
└─────────────────────────┘       └─────────────────────────┘
```

### Key Components

#### 1. Unified Database Client Interface

Create a `database.Client` interface that both MySQL and PostgreSQL clients implement:

```go
// pkg/storage/v2/database/client.go
package database

import "context"

// Client is the unified database client interface
type Client interface {

>     RunInTransactionV2(ctx context.Context, f func(ctx context.Context) error) error

Author: https://github.com/bucketeer-io/bucketeer/pull/2421#discussion_r2850637214 ✔️

# RFC: Polymorphic Database Storage Layer

> ## Contents

Reviewer: We don't need the TOC because we can see it in the viewer sidebar like this: 

<img width="1652" height="868" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c909bedd-2fb4-4eb2-96da-d8e2d3d47dbd" />

Author: https://github.com/bucketeer-io/bucketeer/pull/2421/changes/66ef423af4ce304a145f27cf7c103b58a97b8679 I've deleted this uncessary TOC

  - [Why we chose split query + split storage paths](#why-we-chose-split-query--split-storage-paths)
- [VII. SQL compatibility (reference)](#vii-sql-compatibility-reference)
  - [Placeholders](#placeholders)
  - [JSON](#json)
  - [Upsert](#upsert)
  - [Auto-increment vs serial](#auto-increment-vs-serial)
  - [Transaction propagation](#transaction-propagation)
- [VIII. Affected packages](#viii-affected-packages)
- [IX. Implementation examples](#ix-implementation-examples)
  - [Unified database client and transactions](#unified-database-client-and-transactions)
  - [PostgreSQL filter package](#postgresql-filter-package)
  - [API layer changes](#api-layer-changes)
  - [Storage layer: queries in mysql and postgres packages](#storage-layer-queries-in-mysql-and-postgres-packages)
- [X. Testing strategy](#x-testing-strategy)
- [XI. Trade-offs](#xi-trade-offs)
  - [Advantages](#advantages)
  - [Disadvantages](#disadvantages)
- [XII. Implementation timeline (indicative)](#xii-implementation-timeline-indicative)
- [XIII. Appendix: Example SQL outputs (illustrative)](#xiii-appendix-example-sql-outputs-illustrative)

## I. Summary

> This RFC proposes PostgreSQL as an alternative primary storage backend alongside MySQL, selected at runtime via configuration. The API layer depends on a unified `database.Client` for transactions and on **storage interfaces that use database-agnostic parameters**—not on MySQL query types. **Query construction stays split by dialect**: `pkg/storage/v2/mysql` and `pkg/storage/v2/postgres` each own placeholders, JSON predicates, and helpers; **domain storage packages** provide separate implementations (e.g. `mysql_feature.go`, `postgres_feature.go`) or factories that wire the correct implementation at startup. **List and filter semantics** (what the user asked for) live in the storage layer; the API passes structs and enums derived from RPC validation, not `mysql.ListOptions` or raw SQL fragments.

Reviewer: The content itself seems great, but sorry, this block was hard to read for me because the role of bold-style phrases is unclear (about the new design? about the current problem?, and so on), and they are packed in a single paragraph.

```suggestion
This RFC proposes PostgreSQL as an alternative primary storage backend alongside MySQL, selected at runtime via configuration. 

Key design principles: 
1. **Unified transaction interface**: A new `database.Client` abstracts transaction handling so the API layer has no database-specific conditionals.
2. **Semantic storage interfaces**: The API layer passes domain structs and enums (not `mysql.ListOptions` or SQL fragments) to storage. Each storage implementation translates these into dialect-specific queries.
3. **Split query construction by dialect**: `pkg/storage/v2/mysql` and `pkg/storage/v2/postgres` each own their own placeholders, JSON predicates, and helpers. Domain storage packages provide separate implementations per dialect (e.g. `mysql_feature.go`, `postgres_feature.go`).

```

Author: https://github.com/bucketeer-io/bucketeer/pull/2421/changes/66ef423af4ce304a145f27cf7c103b58a97b8679 updated for readability

  ```go
  filters = append(filters, &mysql.FilterV2{
      Column:   "JSON_CONTAINS(JSON_EXTRACT(rules, '$[*].clauses[*].operator'), '11')",
      Operator: mysql.OperatorEqual,
      Value:    true,
  })
  ```

  PostgreSQL would need a different predicate (`jsonb_path_exists`, `@>`, etc.). No amount of `?` → `$1` rewriting fixes that.

- **Ordering** is mapped in the API with names like `newListFeaturesOrdersMySQL`, producing SQL-oriented values (qualified columns and expressions such as `(progressive_rollout_count + schedule_count + kill_switch_count)`).
- **Storage interfaces** expose `ListFeatures(ctx, *mysql.ListOptions)`, so the API must speak MySQL to call storage—this contradicts the goal of database selection by configuration only.

### Why this matters

- Polymorphic backends require **dialect-specific predicates** for JSON, upsert, and some aggregates. If the API continues to assemble `mysql.ListOptions`, every new endpoint duplicates that coupling.
- The RFC goal “no database-specific conditionals in the API layer” is violated as long as the API builds MySQL filters and embeds MySQL SQL in struct fields meant for columns.

> **Decision:** Treat list/filter **intent** as part of the storage contract. The API validates auth and request shape, then calls storage with **semantic parameters** (environment ID, tag list, enums for order and status, optional booleans, pagination). Each storage implementation maps those parameters to its own list options and SQL.

Reviewer: II and III can be merged into one section.
This block should make readers understand "Why this change is needed".

And so, the `Decision` section should be moved to any of the later parts. It's 'how to solve the problem', not 'what is the matter'

Author: https://github.com/bucketeer-io/bucketeer/commit/66ef423af4ce304a145f27cf7c103b58a97b8679#diff-174ab5bc6f22cf4e9283c2d2ae19d492df30b445b389d4bdb5fbc2933adf1629L45 I've merged II and III section

```go
func (s *featureStoragePostgres) ListFeatures(ctx context.Context, p ListFeaturesParams) ([]*featureproto.Feature, int, int64, error) {
    opts := buildPostgresListOptions(p) // same p, different predicates e.g. jsonb_path_exists / @> for rules
    query, args := postgres.ConstructQueryAndWhereArgs(selectFeaturesSQLQuery, opts)
    rows, err := s.qe.QueryContext(ctx, query, args...)
    // scan identical proto rows
}
```

The **embedded base SELECT** (`select_features.sql`) can stay one file per dialect if fragments differ, or share a static `SELECT ... FROM feature ...` string with dialect-specific `WHERE` composition only—either way, **the strings that differ (JSON, upsert)** live next to `mysql` or `postgres` helpers, not in `pkg/feature/api`.

## X. Testing strategy

1. **Storage unit tests** per dialect for list-parameter mapping and query construction (including JSON and edge filters).
2. **API unit tests** use the `FeatureStorage` (etc.) interface with mocks that accept **semantic params**, not `*mysql.ListOptions`.

> 3. **Integration / E2E** run against MySQL and, as coverage grows, PostgreSQL.

Reviewer: These three sections (8,9,10) can be merged into one section: "Implementation Details".

Basically, the RFC should focus on the overview design + the important details (like SQL compatibility here).

Author: https://github.com/bucketeer-io/bucketeer/commit/66ef423af4ce304a145f27cf7c103b58a97b8679 merged for concise

I want the implementation explanation for clear solution, but yes this testing is redundant indeed, thank you!

> ## XI. Trade-offs

Reviewer: this block can be merged with the alternative considered section.

Author: https://github.com/bucketeer-io/bucketeer/commit/66ef423af4ce304a145f27cf7c103b58a97b8679 moved to alternative section
